# README #

**Transport** abstracts the movement of data between locations.

## Important Semantics

- ***Constructors*** are always concrete and therefore know specific details about the Transport being constructed. They often check for validity of inputs to ensure the requester won't be disappointed later. The requester calls concrete "Construct..." and then shares its Transport object with the sender (you or some framework decide how). A Transport Constructor may return any number of specific errors that are intended to preempt unexpected failures at the write end. (bad refnums, incompatible types, bad format strings, etc.)

- ***Transport Data.vi*** has standard error in/out functionality. Any errors generated by concrete *Transport Data* will be returned as code 517002 so the sender can implement consistent error-handling semantics across types and also be easier to debug. (Sender does not depend on type specifics, which is required for DIP and LSP compliance)

- *Abstract* ***Transport.lvclass:Transport Data.vi*** returns error if called at run-time because abstract Transport makes no sense for a runnning application. Transport is the glue that holds an application together. Abstract glue at run-time produces a bunch uf useless, disconnected pieces.

# Transport Types
## ITransport
This class defines an interface that all descendants must implement. Transport writers should depend on this interface.

## TerminalPropertyBinding
Abstract ancestor of several terminal-based transports. (Has a non-specific control refnum)

## Concrete Implementations
- **ActorMessageTransport** - Transport data into an Actor's core (concrete message override required)
- **BooleanTextBinding** - Bind the Boolean Text property of a button to a value using a format string
- **ConfigurationFileBinding** - Persist a value to a LabVIEW INI file
- **EventTransport** - Transport a value into an event structure
- **FormattedStringBinding** - Bind a string control or indicator to a value using a format string
- **ListboxItemNamesBinding** - Bind a single-column listbox's ItemNames property to a 1-D sting array 
- **MCListboxItemNamesBinding** - Bind a multicolumn listbox's ItemNames property to a 2-D string array
- **NotifierTransport** - Transport data using a notifier
- **PersistToDiskTransport** - Persist anything to a folder to be recovered later (user preferences, last values, etc.)
- **QueueTransport** - Transport values using a queue
- **RingStringsBinding** - Bind the strings displayed in a ring control to a 1-D string array
- **StreamToDiskTransport** - Stream time and value to a TDMS file (#notelegant use of TDMS)
- **TerminalCaptionBinding** - Bind a string control or indicator's caption to a string value (localization, etc.)
- **TerminalEnableStateBinding** - Bind the enabled state (enabled, disabled, disabled & grayed out) of a terminal to a Boolean or Numeric value
- **TerminalSignalingValueBinding** - Transport a value to a control or indicator and trigger the terminal's value change event
- **TerminalValueBinding** - Effieciently transport a value to a control or indicator (no signaling, best performance)
- **TerminalVisibilityBinding** - Bind the visible state of a control or indicator to a Boolean or Numeric value
- **ValueReferenceTransport** - Transport a value by DVR

# Addional Info

### How do I get set up?
- Install this package using [GPM](https://gpackage.io) and start coding

#### Examples
- The automated tests located in the open-source repo (linked by GPM) illustrate basic use and semantics of the transport types.

#### Dependencies
- A few concrete implementations in this package depend on @cs/variant and @cs/composed-af-messages
- These dependencies will be automatically installed by GPM

### Contribution guidelines
- Please contact the author if you want to contribute.
- Issues and bug reports appreciated via the linked issue tracker.

### Who do I talk to?
- Ethan Stern | Composed Systems, LLC
- ethan.stern@composed.io

### License
- See license file